FONTLOG for DINish font family
------------------------
This file provides detailed information on the DINish font software.
This information should be distributed along with the DINish fonts
and any derivative works.

Basic Font Information
----------------------
Copyright (c) 2021, Bert Driehuis (https://github.com/playbeing/dinish)
Copyright (c) 2019, Altinn (https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-din)
Copyright (c) 2017, Datto Inc. (https://www.datto.com/fonts/d-din)

The DINish font is derived from Altinn-DIN, which in turn is based on
Datto's D-DIN. Datto commissioned Monotype to create D-DIN, designed by
Charles Nix, and open sourced it. The font is made available under the
SIL Open Font License v1.1.

Introduction

The name DINish refers to the fact that the typeface looks like DIN
1451. Actually, a quick comparison with the standard as can be found
in historic sources shows DINish to not be fully compatible with the
standard, at least not as it was in 1936. That is probably a good thing.

Reading the DIN 1451 standard with modern eyes reveals that it is
more like a lettering standard for technical drawings than a typeface
specification. The standard has no concern for how the brain processes
shapes and whitespace. DINish was drawn with the human reader in
mind, with subtle but loving exceptions to the rigid grid-and-ruler
specification from the Deutsche Norm. That said, it retains DIN's clarity
and as such it is a typeface with a purpose, if not a mission.

DINish is available in three widths: standard, Condensed and Expanded. The
standard width roughly matches DIN Mittelschrift, the Condensed width
roughly matches the DIN Engschrift, and Expanded is like DIN Breitschrift
(rarely used in Germany, actually). There are Regular, Bold and Italic
variants; the only combination that is missing is Condensed Italic.

Historic roots

DIN 1451 is a sans-serif typeface that is widely used for traffic,
administrative and technical applications. It was defined by the German
standards body DIN - Deutsches Institut fur Normung (German Institute for
Standardization) in the standard sheet DIN 1451-Schriften (typefaces) in
1931. Similar standards existed for stencilled letters.

Originally designed for industrial uses, the first DIN-type fonts were a
simplified design that could be applied with limited technical difficulty.
Due to the design's legibility and uncomplicated, unadorned design, it has
become popular for general purpose use in signage and display adaptations.
Many adaptations and expansions of the original design have been released
digitally.
[from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIN_1451]

Datto uses a DIN-font as primary corporate font and commissioned Monotype to
create several styles, for internal use and to be open sourced under a SIL
OFL v1.1 license.

Altinn changed the reserved font names from "D-DIN" to "Altinn-DIN"
to be able to do modifications, as required by the SIL OFL v1.1 license.
Pursuant to the same license, the name had to be changed yet again
to drop the reserved font names. Hopefully, DINish will stick.

DINish currently provides the following Unicode coverage:
- Basic Latin: complete
- Latin-1 Supplement: complete
- Plus ISO 8859-15 characters missing in the above.


Information for Contributors
----------------------------
This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.

Fontmake is used for generating fonts, as are SIL's pysilfont, Google's
fontbakery and gf-tools. Both FontForge and TruFont have proven invaluable
for editing.

Copyright © 2021 Bert Driehuis (https://github.com/playbeing/dinish)

Copyright © 2019 Altinn 
https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-din

Copyright © 2017 Datto Inc. 
https://www.datto.com/fonts/d-din

This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1.

ChangeLog
---------
(This should list both major and minor changes, most recent first.)

2021-08-xx - v2.007:
 * Add "meta" table to declare support for Latin script.
 * Add missing glyphs for Polish language support (Dinish-Regular only).
 * Fix erroneous Unicode hex value for breve.
2021-06-09 - v2.006: Add DINish Condensed Italic to complete the family
2021-06-06 - v2.005: Add missing glyphs for Turkish language, add lower case alpha
2021-05-25 - v2.004: Add tabular numbers (OpenType tnum feature), minor cleanups
2021-04-24 - v2.003: Split into three families, minor cleanups
2021-04-13 - v2.002: Renamed to DINish, cleaned up for submission to Google Fonts
* Vertical metrics were made consistent within the family (this is an
  incompatible change, but makes rendering consistent when mixing fonts
  from the DINish family in a single line).
* Glyph names were made consistent.
* Many glyphs were re-arranged to reduce fontbakery warnings and fails,
  to make editing and reviewing in TruFont easier, and potentially
  avoid rendering issues.
* Some empty font slots were eliminated.
* Some new glyphs were created to make the family consistent and meet
  Google's requirements.
2021-04-03 - v2.001: Converted to ufo, see NOTES.md
2019-11-20 - v2.0: Renamed D-DIN to Altinn-DIN to be able to do minor modifications.
2017-10-26 - v1.0: First public release


Acknowledgements
-------------------------
Bert Driehuis converted the font sources to UFO format, and cleaned up the
font to hopefully meet the standards for Google Fonts.

This font is based on Altinn-DIN. Altinn added missing glyphs and released the
source in FontForge format.

This font is based on Datto D-DIN.
https://www.datto.com/fonts/d-din

D-DIN is based on a Monotype-font that Datto acquired to be open
sourced. Design: Charles Nix (Monotype).
